Content Migration operation introduces 2 Adobe tools

1. Content Transfer Tool and
2. User Mapping Tool

The Content Transfer Tool is a tool that can be used to move existing content over from a source AEM instance (on-premise or AMS) to the target AEM Cloud Service instance.
Pre-requisites:
The Content Transfer Tool can be downloaded as a zip file from the Software Distribution Portal. You can install the package via Package Manager on your source Adobe Experience Manager (AEM) instance. Make sure to download the latest version.

source AEM instance (on-premise or AMS)

Details about the target AEM as a Cloud Service environment

Phases in Content Transfer
There are two phases associated with content transfer:

a. Extraction: Extraction refers to extracting content from the source AEM instance into a temporary area called migration set. A migration set is a cloud storage area provided by Adobe to temporarily store the transferred content between the source AEM instance and the Cloud Service AEM instance.

b. Ingestion: Ingestion refers to ingesting content from the migration set into the target Cloud Service instance.

Source Environment Connectivity
The source AEM instance may be running behind a firewall where it can only reach certain hosts which have been added to an Allow List. In order to successfully run an extraction, the following endpoints will need to be accessible from the instance that is running AEM:

The target AEM as a Cloud Service environment: author-p<program_id>-e<env_id>.adobeaemcloud.com
The Azure blob storage service: *.blob.core.windows.net
The User Mapping IO endpoint: usermanagement.adobe.io
To test connectivity to the target AEM as a Cloud Service environment, issue the following cURL command from the shell of the source instance (replace program_id, environment_id, and migration_token):

curl -i https://author-p<program_id>-e<environment_id>.adobeaemcloud.com/api/migration/migrationSet -H "Authorization: Bearer <migration_token>"
If an HTTP/2 200 is received, a connection to AEM as a Cloud Service was successful.

Running the Content Transfer Tool

Follow this section to learn how to use Content Transfer Tool to migrate the content to AEM as a Cloud Service (Author/Publish):

Select the Adobe Experience Manager and navigate to tools -> Operations -> Content Migration.
Select the Content Transfer option from Content Migration wizard.
The console below appears when you create the first migration set. Click on Create Migration Set to create a new migration set.
Populate the fields in Create Migration Set screen, as described below.
Name: Enter the name of the migration set.
Cloud Service Configuration: Enter the destination AEM as a Cloud Service Author URL. You can create and maintain a maximum of ten migration sets at a time during the content transfer activity.
Additionally, you have to create a migration separately for each of the specific environments - Stage, Development, or Production
Access Token: Enter the access token.
You can retrieve the access token by using the Open access token button. You need to ensure that you belong to the ‘Administrators’ group in the target Cloud Service instance
Parameters: Select the following parameters to create the migration set:
Include Version: Select as required. When versions are included, the path /var/audit is automatically included to migrate audit events.
Paths to be included: Use path browser to select paths which need to be migrated. Path picker accepts input by typing or by selection.
Following paths are restricted while creating a migration set:

/apps
/libs
/home
/etc (some /etc paths are allowed to be selected in CTT)
Click on Save after you populate all the fields in the Create Migration Set details screen.

You will view your migration set in the Content Transfer wizard, as shown in the figure below.
All the existing migration sets are displayed on the Content Transfer wizard with their current status and status information. You may see some of these icons described below.

A red cloud indicates that you cannot complete the extraction process.
A green cloud indicates that you can complete the extraction process.
A yellow icon indicates that you did not create the existing migration set and the specific one is created by some other user in the same instance.
Select a migration set and click on Properties to view or edit the migration set properties. While editing properties, it is not possible to change the Migration Set name or the Service URL.
Copying a large number of blobs with the Content Transfer Tool (CTT) may take multiple days.
To significantly speed up the extraction and ingestion phases of the content transfer activity to move content to AEM as a Cloud Service, CTT can leverage AzCopy as an optional pre-copy step. This pre-copy step can be used when the source AEM instance is configured to use an Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage data store, or File Data Store. Once this pre-step is configured, in the extraction phase, AzCopy copies blobs from Amazon S3, Azure Blob Storage, or File data store to the migration set blob store. In the ingestion phase, AzCopy copies blobs from the migration set blob store to the destination AEM as a Cloud Service blob store.
Extraction Process in Content Transfer Tool
If Amazon S3 or Azure Data Store is used as the type of data store, you can run the optional pre-copy step to significantly speed up the extraction phase. To do so you will need to configure an azcopy.config file before running extraction.
Select a migration set from Content Transfer wizard and click Extract to start extraction.
The Migration Set extraction dialog box displays and click on Extract to start the extraction phase.
The Extraction field now displays the RUNNING status to indicate that the extraction is in-progress
Once the extraction is complete, the status of the migration set updates to FINISHED and a solid green cloud icon displays under the INFO field.
Top-Up Extraction
The Content Transfer Tool has a feature that supports differential content top-up where it is possible to transfer only changes made since the previous content transfer activity.
Ingestion Process in Content Transfer Tool
If Amazon S3 or Azure Data Store is used as the type of data store, you can run the optional pre-copy step to significantly speed up the ingestion phase. Refer to Ingesting with AzCopy for more details.

Select a migration set from Content Transfer page and click Ingest to start ingestion.
The Migration Set ingestion dialog box displays. Content can be ingested to either Author instance or Publish instance at a time. Select the instance to ingest content to. Click on Ingest to start the ingestion phase.
Once the ingestion is complete, the status under Author ingestion updates to FINISHED.
Top Up Ingestion
The Content Transfer Tool has a feature that supports differential content top-up where it is possible to transfer only changes made since the previous content transfer activity.
Once the ingestion process is complete, you can use delta content, by using the top-up ingestion method. Follow the steps below:

Navigate to the Content Transfer wizard and select the migration set for which you want to perform the top-up ingestion. Click Ingest to start the top-up extraction.
